# Machine-learning-algorithms-to-detect-ransomware-attack

This aimed to examine a machine-learning approach for categorizing ransomware using random forests and characteristics collected from the raw bytes of the file. To build the most effective XGBoost classifier that can reliably identify ransomware, several different sizes of seeds and trees have been put through experimental testing. It is a static analysis for byte-level properties to identify ransomware. In addition, we have compared each algorithm to other machine learning approaches such as logistic regression, support vector machine, and Radom Forest, XGBoost was evaluated using performance measures such as accuracy, precision, recall, and confusion matrix. All four algorithms have given their best performance to detect bad files; however, logistic regression and XGBoost gave the best results compared with other algorithms.

The dataset for ransomware attack detection is downloaded from rissgroup.org/ransomware dataset in a CSV file format, a repository regarded as a secondary data source. The dataset comprises both goodware and ransomware files that were recovered from the Cuckoo sandbox in February 2016. There are a total of 1524 samples, 582 of which are malicious files, while the rest are excellent products. Ransomware is now divided into distinct families according to its characteristics. This dataset contains 11 different sorts of families, which are labeled with the "Type" column. Each family is assigned an ID, which is kept in the table below: (GitHub, 2022)
